/* Stefan's notes

  I'm changing the temp calculation to turn any value outside a reasonable range to NaN.
  This is just to make the output prettier.

  I modified writeSD() so that it composes the full string to be written and writes it
  with a single println() call. The same exact string is printed to serial, including the timestamp.

  I'm getting all bad values from the thermistors, even with probes hooked up. I don't know why.

  I refactored the timestamp printing code. Now it uses a consistent format. 
  I added an overload of printDateTime() with no argument -- it prints the current timestamp.

  I'm really confused by the sleeping and waking code. Is it really programmed to go to sleep at 2:09 AM
  and wake up at 2:10 AM?
  Evonne says yeah. Ok, then...

  Let's look at the ADC calculations. I see we're setting the gain to "ONE", which means +/-4.096V.
  The reference voltage is 2.5V. So at nominal temperature, it should be 1.25V. With the 16-bit signed
  format, it should read basically 10000 at nominal voltage. That's interesting.
  The code divides 20000 by the reading, subtracts 1, then multiplies by 10000. 
  I've verified the calculation. Remember the thermistor is on the top of the voltage divider!
  Then there's some calculation to turn that into temperature. I'll just take that on faith.

  So why are we reading bad values? Well the multimeter agrees the analog inputs are at 0V.
  If the ADC reads 0V, the calculation would give NaN. If it reads 1 we would get 19.58E9 C. 
  If it reads -1, we would get something similar negative. And those three values are what we're seeing!
  Oh! The ADCs are powered from the uC, but the voltage reference is powered from 6V from the battery!

  How much precision can we actually get from the thermistor and ADC?
  A quick Excel sheet says if the ADC reading increases from 10000 to 10001, the calculated temperature
  will change from 25.25439 to 25.25918. So the third place after the decimal is the last meaningful digit.
  This also means that we aren't going to do much better than two places after the decimal that we had before.
  We can do a little better by increasing the ADC gain.
  If I increase the gain to 2x, our max reading is 2.048V, which corresponds to 51.7 C. That seems
  perfectly acceptable. We can't increase the gain to 4x without cutting off at 16.6 C.

  So I'll increase the gain to 2x. That will at least increase our resolution to 0.0024 C.
  I'm also changing MAX_ADC to 40000 to compensate.


  Is it really using the RTC alarms to schedule turning the heat on and off during the measurement cycle?
  But the measurement cycle is looping on a 1000ms delay(). This could have bad consequences.
  The RTC alarm isn't an interrupt, we're polling it. But we only poll it once per second. But it isn't
  *exactly* a second, it's a second plus overhead. So there's bound to be slippage.
  This means that the clock time from the RTC (and presumably the alarms too) will advance by 1 second
  usually, and 2 seconds occasionally. So the 5 second heat pulse is really a 5 unit heat pulse, and
  occasionally it will be a 4 unit heat pulse.
  I collected the 100k+ timestamps from the SD card, filtered out the irrelevant ones, and did a frequency
  analysis. 112851 1-steps, 13289 2-steps. That's 11.7%! If my calculations are correct, each period is
  1.105 seconds long!
  So 88.3% of the heat pulses are 5.525 seconds long, and 11.7% are 4.420 seconds long.
  Ok. Can I corroborate this with the dataset?
  A more direct way to check this. I counted the number of "heat" measurement lines between "pre-heat" and
  "post-heat". 1.6% of the time there are only 4 "heat" lines. So not as bad as I thought.
  This needs to be fixed.

  Ok, let's get back to the issues I came here to look at. 
  How about battery level? That should be easy. Done!

  Now for dumping the contents. The data rate of Serial will be a problem for dumping the whole file.
  There's currently 15MB, which would take 17 minutes even at 115200 (and maybe even longer).
  Huh. The definition of Serial.begin() ignores the baud rate! So maybe it's faster than 115200, maybe
  much faster
  I just measured it as 17.9 kB/s, which is a little faster than 115200.
  Evonne says they're running a measurement cycle every 30 minutes. That comes out to 27 seconds per day.
  Not too bad for a first pass!
  Perhaps at the end of the dump, we should move the existing data to a timestamped file, and start over.
  Then each dump will include only the data since the last dump, but all data is preserved.


  ## 2024-08-04

  TODO
    Include voltage in every row of the data
    Low battery cutoff
      (What voltage?)
    Timing issue with the data
      The data shows a bit of a stair-steppy thing every couple of seconds. 
      I think that's because the measurement loop is using delay() for timing.
    Work on data extraction time (lower priority)


  I did a bunch of refactoring
    Moved some global variables into inner scopes
    Used a strong enum for heating states

  How exactly are the two alarms being used?
    It seems alarm 2 is used for putting the system to sleep
    Alarm 1 is used to time out the three measurement phases

  A problem with the dump procedure
    When you plug in the USB to the laptop, you have to wait for a whole measurement cycle before the dump command is read!

  What is the purpose of fireAlarm2()?
    I'll bet it's the source of the clock drift Evonne mentioned
    But why is it even there?
    I think I know. If both alarms are cleared, the system will power off in deployment conditions.
    If the system didn't wake due to alarm 2 firing, then clearing alarm 1 might power it off.
      That could be because the device is on USB power, or because someone pushed the button to wake it early.
    Alarm 1 can be set for seconds, but alarm 2 is only set for minutes.
    So here's a better way, that doesn't involve changing the current time
      Just set alarm 2 to go off at the current minute.
      I've implemented that.


*/